# Addressing Absenteeism At a Company During Work Time  
The business environment today is more competitive than it used to be. This leads to increased pressure in the work place. And so, it is reasonable to expect an increase in stress levels of the employees. Looking at this problem from the point of view of the person responsible for improving productivity in the company, I will explore whether a person presenting certain characteristics is expected to be away from work at some point in time. In other words, I want to know for how many working hours an employee could be away from work, based on information like how far they live from their workplace, if they have children or pets, and if they do, how many, do they have higher education, etc. 
### The Dataset
The [Absenteeism_data.csv](https://github.com/pujitha-vasanth/absenteeism/files/10011298/Absenteeism_data.csv) is a dataset based on an existing study about absenteeism in a work place. It contains information regarding the employee ID, Reason for Absense, Transportation Expense, Distance to Work, Age, Daily Work Load Average, Body Mass Index, Education, Children, Pets, and Absenteeism Time (Hours). The raw data is loaded using the pandas library, and a copy is made to keep the orignial dataset unharmed. 
### Pre-Processing The Dataset
A significant amount of time will be devoted to this step as preprocessing is an essential part of any analysis. It involves converting the raw data into a format that is easier to understand and is useful for further processing and gaining insights. What exactly needs to be done in this step? I will first examine the dataset from top to bottom, and from left to right to get a feel of the data. 
##### 1. Checking for Missing Values
This is done using the .info() method. I see that all the columns contain 700 values each. So, there are no missing values in this dataset. 
We want to predict absenteeism from work. The only variable in the dataframe that represents this phenomenon is the last column- Absenteeism Time in Hours. The employee with ID 11 was absent from work for 4 hours on the 7th of July, 2015, ID number 36 was not absent on the 14th of July, 2015, and so on. This is going to be my dependant variable or label. All the other columns represent indepenent variables or features.  
##### 2. Dropping the ID Column 
The ID column gives the individual identification of an employee. Each ID represents a specific employee. This is a label variable/nominal data used to identify a person. Is this useful to train a model? Not really. If this column takes part in the analysis, as it does not carry any numeric information, the subsequent calculations will be false. So, we drop this column using the drop() method. 
##### 3. The [Reason For Absence] Column
The minimum and maximum values in the column are obtained, followed by getting an array of only the distinct values in the column using the pd.unique() method. The len() function gives the number of distinct values in the column, which is 28. Hence, the column contains 28 different reasons for being absent from work. Great! But wait. I'm going to sort the distinct values to check something. The number 20 is missing from this list. So one of the reasons has not been utilized as a reason to be absent from work. 
##### 4. 
